docs/Appendix/App-Team-Org.md, before:

---
title: "Appendix: Team Organization"
tags:
- tag1
- tag2
---

## Team Goals

1. To research  interest and potentialy sell the product to private and corporate car shops.
2. To increase the ability to think outside the box for a solution when finding a problem. 
3. To Learn how to communicate and manuever around multiple shedules sucessfully while working on a professional product. 
4. To print and create a working product that can be used in a real life setting. 
5. To better understand the engineering process from consumer-needs to working prototype. 
 
## Product Mission Statement

*insert here

## Communication Channels

_**Appendix Table 1**: Team Member Communication Modes_

|Name                 | First Choice Communication | Second Choice Communication | Third Choice Communication |
|---------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------|----------------------------|
|Isaac Smith        |  Text | Call | Email |
|Christo            |  Call | Text | Email |
|Seth Merwin        |  Discord | Text | Email |
|Lakshanand Sugumar |  Text | Call | Email |

### Main Method for Group Communication

Based on the information provided on in the "Team Member Communication Modes," the group primary method of communication is cellphones, with the preference of texting. 
 
## Communication Procedures

1. How will your team communicate?

    We will comunicate by texting and will respond to text messages within 24 hours. 

2. How will you handle instructor correspondence? Who is responsible? How will that be communicated with/back to the group?

    Seth will handle communication with the instructor. All information gained will be shared via group text message within 24 hours of recieving the information. 

## Meeting Schedule

_**Appendix Table 2**: Weekly Schedule_

| Time | Sunday | Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday | Saturday |
| :------: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :-----: |
| 8:00 AM | I   | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 9:00 AM | I   | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 10:00 AM | I  | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 11:00 AM | I  | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 12:00 PM | I  | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 1:00 PM | I   | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 2:00 PM | I   | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 3:00 PM | I   | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 4:00 PM | I   | - | I   | - | I   | -   | - |
| 5:00 PM | I,S | - | I,S | - | I,S | -   | I |
| 6:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S |  S  | I,S |
| 7:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S | I,S | I,S |
| 8:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S | I,S | I,S |
| 9:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S | I,S | I,S |

_**Table Legend for Appendix Table 2**_

| Name | Abbreviation |
| ----- | :------: |
| Isaac | I |
| Christo | C |
| Seth | S |
| Lakshanand | L |


## Meeting Coordination

1. What method will you use to remind yourselves of meetings (a shared calendar?)<br>
    Isaac will send a text message 24 hours before the meeting starts as a reminder. 
1. How will your team go about changing or adding meeting times?<br>
    After every meeting, the team will plan for the next meeting and where it will take place. 
1. What's the preferred format for meetings (face-to-face or virtually)?<br>
    The preferred method of meeting is virtually. Before any big presentation or event, we will have a face-to-face meeting. 
1. Are there any other procedures that your team feels are necessary?<br>
    A: If there is a struggle remembering meetings, events, or assignments then the team will create a shared calender to help organize and recenter the group.<br> 
    B: Any role change or added responsibility should be clearly stated in comunication (text, email, etc.) and any responsibility or task will also have written proof so that there is clear evidence that a task was asigned. 

## Roles & Responsibilities

_**Appendix Table 2**: Project Roles and Duties_

| **Role**          | **Duties**                                                                                                                                |
| :---------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting leader: Isaac Smith    | Schedules team meetings, creates and distributes an agenda for each meeting, and runs each meeting                                        |
| Meeting recorder: Seth Merwin  | Takes minutes of each team meeting, including attendance, and records action items and to whom they are assigned                          |
| Assignment leader:  | Coordinates the team's work on a given assignment to Canvas before the due date                                                           |
| Project monitor:    | Tracks the team's progress relative to the project schedule (Gantt chart) and keeps team members apprised of deadlines and project status |

•	Change roles after each project sub-process<br>
•	Roles will rotate in a rolling fashion<br>
•	Hold each other accountable and ask for/provide help when necessary<br>
•	If someone is falling behind, have an honest conversation and discuss solutions<br>
•	Reminders in communication channels about due dates and milestones/check Canvas regularly<br>
•	Technical responsibilities will be assigned based on what is most relevant to each individuals strengths and/or subsystem<br>


## Team Coordination & Accountability

*insert here

## Conflict Recognition & Resolution

If there is a conflict: 

A: In case of simple disagreemants of ideas and roles the team will vote in agreeance or dissagreeance. The opposing sides will each be given a chance to defend their standing and then the vote will take place.<br>

B: In case of task issues the team will refer to if there is written proof that someone is asigned to the task. If no one is asigned to the task, then the Team Leader will assign who will do the task. If a task is not completed 5 hours before the due date, then the Team Leader will complete the task with the help of the others. There will be a penalty that is decided by the people completing the task depending on the severity and the consistency of the wrong doer.<br>

C: In the case that there is a clear imbalance of assigned work on the project, the Team Leader will talk with the group and assign tasks based on the ability of each team menber. The Team Leader has priority on assigning tasks unless the majority of team members still think that there is an imbalance. They will then defer to Resolution A to vote and decide an acceptable outcome. If the imbalance persists, then the team does have a right to impose a penalty depending on the severity and consistency of the wrong doer.<br>


## Signatures

By adding your name and initials here you are herby adhering to join scheduled meetings and finish assignments at the specified completion date. <br>

| Name         | Initials |
| :----------- | :-------: |
|Isaac Smith | IS |
|Seth Merwin | SM |
| - | - |
| - | - |

Commit message:

Added team coordination/accountability to appendix

docs/Appendix/App-Team-Org.md, after:

---
title: "Appendix: Team Organization"
tags:
- tag1
- tag2
---

## Team Goals

1. To research  interest and potentialy sell the product to private and corporate car shops.
2. To increase the ability to think outside the box for a solution when finding a problem. 
3. To Learn how to communicate and manuever around multiple shedules sucessfully while working on a professional product. 
4. To print and create a working product that can be used in a real life setting. 
5. To better understand the engineering process from consumer-needs to working prototype. 
 

## Communication Channels

_**Appendix Table 1**: Team Member Communication Modes_

|Name                 | First Choice Communication | Second Choice Communication | Third Choice Communication |
|---------------------|----------------------------|-----------------------------|----------------------------|
|Isaac Smith        |  Text | Call | Email |
|Christo            |  Call | Text | Email |
|Seth Merwin        |  Discord | Text | Email |
|Lakshanand Sugumar |  Text | Call | Email |

### Main Method for Group Communication

Based on the information provided on in the "Team Member Communication Modes," the group primary method of communication is cellphones, with the preference of texting. 
 
## Communication Procedures

1. How will your team communicate?

    We will comunicate by texting and will respond to text messages within 24 hours. 

2. How will you handle instructor correspondence? Who is responsible? How will that be communicated with/back to the group?

    Seth will handle communication with the instructor. All information gained will be shared via group text message within 24 hours of recieving the information. 

## Meeting Schedule

_**Appendix Table 2**: Weekly Schedule_

| Time | Sunday | Monday | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday | Saturday |
| :------: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :----: | :-----: |
| 8:00 AM | I   | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 9:00 AM | I   | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 10:00 AM | I  | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 11:00 AM | I  | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 12:00 PM | I  | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 1:00 PM | I   | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 2:00 PM | I   | I | -   | I | -   | -   | - |
| 3:00 PM | I   | - | -   | - | -   | -   | - |
| 4:00 PM | I   | - | I   | - | I   | -   | - |
| 5:00 PM | I,S | - | I,S | - | I,S | -   | I |
| 6:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S |  S  | I,S |
| 7:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S | I,S | I,S |
| 8:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S | I,S | I,S |
| 9:00 PM | I,S | I | I,S | - | I,S | I,S | I,S |

_**Table Legend for Appendix Table 2**_

| Name | Abbreviation |
| ----- | :------: |
| Isaac | I |
| Christo | C |
| Seth | S |
| Lakshanand | L |


## Meeting Coordination

1. What method will you use to remind yourselves of meetings (a shared calendar?)<br>
    Isaac will send a text message 24 hours before the meeting starts as a reminder. 
1. How will your team go about changing or adding meeting times?<br>
    After every meeting, the team will plan for the next meeting and where it will take place. 
1. What's the preferred format for meetings (face-to-face or virtually)?<br>
    The preferred method of meeting is virtually. Before any big presentation or event, we will have a face-to-face meeting. 
1. Are there any other procedures that your team feels are necessary?<br>
    A: If there is a struggle remembering meetings, events, or assignments then the team will create a shared calender to help organize and recenter the group.<br> 
    B: Any role change or added responsibility should be clearly stated in comunication (text, email, etc.) and any responsibility or task will also have written proof so that there is clear evidence that a task was asigned. 

## Roles & Responsibilities

_**Appendix Table 2**: Project Roles and Duties_

| **Role**          | **Duties**                                                                                                                                |
| :---------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Meeting leader: Isaac Smith    | Schedules team meetings, creates and distributes an agenda for each meeting, and runs each meeting                                        |
| Meeting recorder: Seth Merwin  | Takes minutes of each team meeting, including attendance, and records action items and to whom they are assigned                          |
| Assignment leader:  | Coordinates the team's work on a given assignment to Canvas before the due date                                                           |
| Project monitor:    | Tracks the team's progress relative to the project schedule (Gantt chart) and keeps team members apprised of deadlines and project status |

•	Change roles after each project sub-process<br>
•	Roles will rotate in a rolling fashion<br>
•	Hold each other accountable and ask for/provide help when necessary<br>
•	If someone is falling behind, have an honest conversation and discuss solutions<br>
•	Reminders in communication channels about due dates and milestones/check Canvas regularly<br>
•	Technical responsibilities will be assigned based on what is most relevant to each individuals strengths and/or subsystem<br>


## Team Coordination & Accountability

•	For each assignment, establish one person to submit it to Canvas when completed. Have individuals ‘sign off’ on each assignment through the main communication channel.<br>
•	Have a meeting at the beginning of each assignment to identify any potential unreadiness, and if so, create a plan to solve it.<br>
•	Have each individual take notes on the design review and have a meeting to discuss it.<br>
•	First lack of contribution is a warning/discussion, second is pink-slip/relayed to professor.<br>
•	Reference the charter and point out/communicate deviations when necessary.<br>
•	Be watchful for lack of contribution, communication, quality, etc. to notice if a teammate is underperforming.<br>
•	Have honest conversations with underperforming teammates and make use of other team members’ strengths and/or external resources.<br>
•	If improvement is not seen, team warning/discussion and then pink slip/professor involvement.<br>


## Conflict Recognition & Resolution

If there is a conflict: 

A: In case of simple disagreemants of ideas and roles the team will vote in agreeance or dissagreeance. The opposing sides will each be given a chance to defend their standing and then the vote will take place.<br>

B: In case of task issues the team will refer to if there is written proof that someone is asigned to the task. If no one is asigned to the task, then the Team Leader will assign who will do the task. If a task is not completed 5 hours before the due date, then the Team Leader will complete the task with the help of the others. There will be a penalty that is decided by the people completing the task depending on the severity and the consistency of the wrong doer.<br>

C: In the case that there is a clear imbalance of assigned work on the project, the Team Leader will talk with the group and assign tasks based on the ability of each team menber. The Team Leader has priority on assigning tasks unless the majority of team members still think that there is an imbalance. They will then defer to Resolution A to vote and decide an acceptable outcome. If the imbalance persists, then the team does have a right to impose a penalty depending on the severity and consistency of the wrong doer.<br>


## Signatures

By adding your name and initials here you are herby adhering to join scheduled meetings and finish assignments at the specified completion date. <br>

| Name         | Initials |
| :----------- | :-------: |
|Isaac Smith | IS |
|Seth Merwin | SM |
| - | - |
| - | - |
