docs/06-team-block-diagram.md, before:

---
title: Team Block Diagram
---

## Description

The block diagram below shows how our team's individual subsystems connect to each other. Each major block represents one subsystem showing the programmed microcontroller, which pins of it are being used (and how), and what those pins are connected to. The subsystems will connect to each other via a total of four 8-wire ribbon cables. The pin-headers for these cables are shown at the bottom of each subsystem block, and they display which of their pins are connected to the subsystem. Any pins on the headers that do not have arrows will not be used in the design. The large, bold, bidirectional arrows between subsystems represent the 8-wire ribbon cables themselves, showing which subsytems are directly connected to each other. This diagram helps the team and stakeholders understand the general function of each subsystem as well as how they will be communicating to form a complete system.

## Block Diagram of Subsystems

![Team103 Block Diagram](image/Team103_Block_Diagram.drawio.png)

This is the whole system where each subsystem is connected to another with an 8-wire ribbon cable. The motor is used as a bridge from the flex sensor and the rotary encoder during initial calibration. Every subsystem is then connected to the motor to feed and recieve information from its inputs and motion.

### Motor

![Motor Subsystem Block Diagram](<image/Individual Motor Subsystem for Team.drawio.png>)

Link to Draw.io is [here](https://viewer.diagrams.net/?tags=%7B%7D&lightbox=1&highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&layers=1&nav=1&title=Individual%20Motor%20Subsystem.drawio&dark=auto#R%3Cmxfile%3E%3Cdiagram%20name%3D%22Page-1%22%20id%3D%22eZ7gXXGAp_J01Qm2sftV%22%3E7V1dd6q4Gv41rjX7wq6Eby5b3e3sc9p9OnZmz%2Bxzl2qqTNE4iK3uXz%2BJgkKSgggkuNa%2BaSEmQJ68X08SXnrmYL65i9By9kAmOOwZYLLpmcOeYUAIPfqPlWz3JQ5ICqZRMEkqHQuegh84KQRJ6TqY4FWuYkxIGAfLfOGYLBZ4HOfKUBSR93y1FxLm77pEUywUPI1RKJb%2BGUzi2b7Us8Gx%2FFccTGfpnSFIfpmjtHJSsJqhCXnPFJmfe%2BYgIiTeH803Axwy8FJc9u1uP%2Fj18GARXsSnNHjZ%2FP8p%2BjGO%2FYdv%2FzjDu6%2Ff%2FbtJ39hf5Q2F66TDX1YIjXvmNS19IDGJkoePtykiEVkvJphdFPTMm%2FdZEOOnJRqzX9%2BpDNCyWTwP6Rmkhy9BGA5ISC9jDhdkQSvdvOEoDijA12EwXdDimLA2Ym%2BSDrLqeJMpSnp3h8kcx9GWVkl%2BtbwE6UTUoJ%2Bcvx8HzneSsllm0CwrKUSJsEwP1z7iSQ8SSCvA60EB38bxnKDVbNccNgMjNKw8jgYQcYSeDEejNRxFOe08jjYsh9E1JTAaflswmgKKD8E4IuNZsKTFj18G0Lu13d8sWg8M1lFAVkHMevQVLUg9vOVKLxmFOXlDz7tbsGYRXgU%2FsuckRnHmnHobnD3HkyB7GpLx6%2BEJEw%2BR%2BbmJQbbt%2FCAb4iDbQDbIsK1BtoSRwhPq0pJTEsUzMiULFH4%2Blt7kx%2FJY556wcdqB9TeO423in9E6JvnxpQhG279Y%2Bys7Pf2eXG53Mtzkzrbp2SaIM83o2ff0ivT42IidpG0%2BHLYVWUdjXACN7SQRBIqmOC5SlERTGHKFYhDhEMXBWz5YkA1p0vSRBPShD%2BLjGnnxsU1OKvZPmrQ6CsZ1FKFtptqSVVgV3Adw97G4WKHsufL16cH%2BCY5SesDkfMG1tQiuVABBoQCeK%2BznC65xquCmcWnbguvYJYK771JtwRXuYxcLru8X1m9HcJ0LFFxoZCUXXgFYZqnZ2SOOAooWjupLNDxVog01Es178rYkmr%2BPVSLRjmHWq2%2FC9jXA1asBLoAZHWDCbJ2oBznzfeXaZUpAr9KcDqSiXaoDfisqUFVyfWDkJcsrlkQIfFCvgQ3t9mXX0yy7vpGXXeCcJbvGT9ktkl2Ls7puiShCjr1Xb%2BApkN0E3Ny0iBPGjBkHb%2FRwGu8GeV%2B0WqJFWvZr%2FyYK2JAkv9G7Z3%2FOFEsu9OG1M0rk%2FLNmE5s3z2j8Ot2pS3%2B8Z%2FpsZjGaPv9iMEdIuw0OBxAYn%2FbXTBqnd0ET9BKtg1jT04aMtvcnKHr9peDBd0fsd9PdH6f%2Fwad9r8DHlwRJzbTB8WLizejBJzlM9%2F5OCMHwyyP96102WnzneoZpWZ5fsVN15qxC9IzDm0MfuYmqD01nhZlWaMmNTG6mFUpmj5y2Jo%2FSmxVblGRhoFM2YkSeSbyaUf97ESbN9izw512fsoHHh77N4h4AjW8KpbsJ%2BTUBF69ZEvmVzX62J79QQEVhNJdlIUdeXi2OKwvjzg%2FZ%2FBMjNtjOHFLVkA0aLiddoCQEExq4CiZ%2FEopSYjHvIoyZNbn%2FPGxDmSdBhMdxQNjSCkaruCH9hk4%2BajY9Ub9lC6r81Elz6u1IwOaAY6Z5%2BWHv86tAvcN6TYUlH35uXOa0Zai0Z%2FRcAZWkm8xLA9Ek1lq6o242JnOphBWPWTnC%2BhD0BAQnwTSIUXgx2B1WmU%2FzwK0t1UORkyLqS8n0YpDccLB9jKylElhDDM1ranarCmwoxUbcZyM6Bs3YbD4UI7VQGQJUZkehkrAJtVCJ%2B2XEzRXdgMrRDZUlQCUu53cDKkkMqxYqkTCIC8jdgApKtqypxUqM98Wlxo5gpd2wiyxAXNrqCFbaLbsY7wtQtc0jHX6rinYeaYihe5ZH1oyo6kbwhzHrMI80xRi9EzyyAnZd4ZGmGNJ3gUdWQLKjPNIUCYAaHnmeAiv1C6YY8avhkdXFSne4YYoRvxoeWR0q3dGGKUb8anhkdah080hTDPjV8MjqUOnmkaYY76vhkTVcoDasxHhfDY88Ayvthl1kAWp45BlY6bbslhjvC1C1zSM9p2s80hJD9yyPrBkm1I3grdMR1oegGKN3gkdWwK4rPNISQ%2Fou8MgKSHaUR1oiAVDDI89TYLV%2BQYz41fDI6mKlO9ywxIhfDY%2BsDpX2aEOM%2BNXwyOpQ6eaRlhjwq%2BGR1aHSzSMtMd5XwyNruEBdWKWvVyvnkWdgpduw2yILUMMjz8BKt2VP36bLYDVM433whV7yf%2FWQU5mGyeY3DUv4qCVLH9Qam7LFgOJnSpQ0d0EyWKVvBaSyr%2FmtANvjXuQsyWRim4X123knwBap0ei28fijsmY6XBYYS%2BJOZRSyte389knvToxunY6%2BAOXwbxVrB1QkU6PbxiOU6jjxSqsdJ5FJjW70Kyifdkk%2FTiKNGg07gJPTNZx8LRHGIVKw7FwSoCvfMwvjhTqxSYM5JLwTY490qlFz7OF6hal1SuvbfIZWrr7n2kX124lVHJHSjoaNTwBUVnGva7GKI9LZ0VC%2Fa%2FU0hiDX930Ibn9bw8Hfv%2BO%2FPkcAEqwpi19qz2CvelKc88gWZ4vOZF%2FmiRbQr2nv6om%2BuIQmCdMhAK8MBhJTGAKydxHdSrqgOY9Mxad9hA7479fLzuLSes6bnmFCj%2FnhQpQqdj6O0GKV6rOaXjhozpzD4nm1zI%2FuJeQBMbjAxbTNq7Qom3xd4oc848puy2yJszCy2QUKVGt5GZoAl0%2FCYJmih1eahMERZ21Gt40vRNaed9YfMUomYwYdiKy7Nhnj6Mkeemb%2BHbXT8%2BnaSWmA6HSDIvu8cDnFlBdCfsqrcgNLQZ5FRzIPNtBv8vyuzRc6eubBaquyb7tZZb4ChlGo0Jpyqaa5pnRn5gLpvqMTc1JDCO16DUxfgZa7sqmwxvc0VtfyrgU2rp4ke5k5a8PMa7rvlql6s9nr05ffyrPXu4o1NjewTeiEoWOszx8Zqx0TKc7V867X5C7R0JdbPD5LQEkSRP65qtZX87mATm3IKfvyRQ1hPPWzLenigu7onXfTfonw8J4pX78l4bmoD1ydLzzGqVGhpdrHfLDTil%2B9NIuFxzcL67ckPJK5qyHQHuJB0LXlTvdiPmpUQ8NOXX2zu8G7bD4WgMUa5vBvhkIVGiZurcrNuksWYV7IIu6vdjLBVligs9xIl0h2F3k%2B%2FxK770HSX4cBmkZoTo%2F6ffrnd7w7hsDcN36MgjcU4%2F4fK8wqk91Lq9dUVudol2L5uE7wXGE17tyH3n%2BP1wBP84Aagt060hNmR%2BABR%2B%2FBYlckXz3q%2BqrXPXpdzdACLSasU%2Bvpeo6ifZvBLApW1DgY4D9khZezeuth1AjHeTuziiPyirkd8ZJN8ijZHD%2BmmDDaKOyanweTyc70yXxE3hyy0U4MH3SacRsW53Jl6bmVvrfsyvKqCUtu9jcm7Vc2E6w3EsbsE9wGGOHpmlrPzn1Ygr2I8Yq3l7FnwPXsPrQso2%2F3vw4vfFUZcN%2FzPnwyt%2By1fNjEezrSzU2d4q2nUY9G9im5%2FomR0n6rkK6NSuljlmxUYt9ZATvr88ci2lud3SaAR%2FLOtixRV7RchlvNmt269%2F35Ua2TYDJt48Ls5oEoqrCb9DQiDLAjh6Cdmj2QCWY1%2FgU%3D%3C%2Fdiagram%3E%3C%2Fmxfile%3E).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://isrysm52.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance:

This subsystem is the main brain of the Automatic Door Opener. The motor takes information from the flex sensor, the rotary encoder, and the two distance sensors to determine if it should move forward or backward. It also uses the information given to stop and wait for more input if there are problems with movement.

- Correlation to Requirements

This subsystem uses the motor to open the door, stop the door, and is attached to the latch that will diengage the motor in case of emergencies. This is the focus on safety while the automatic door opener and closer is being used. 

- Interface Connections

This subsystem has the potentiometer that will give the user the abitilty to manually slow down and speed up the door. This subsystem also has lights that will be labeled in the manual for when it is activated, moving, and stopped by something in the way. 


### IR Sensors

![IR Sensor Subsystem Block Diagram](image/Distance%20Sensors%20Subsystem%20Block%20Diagram.drawio.png)

Link to Draw.io is [here](Documents/Distance_Sensing%20Subsystem%20Block%20Diagram.drawio).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://samerwin1.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance:

This subsystem is responsible for sensing users approaching the door as well as detecting obstacles in the path. When sensing someone approaching, the subsystem tells the motor to begin opening the door. While the door is opening or closing, the subsystem is checking to make sure nothing is in the way at several points along the path.

### Flex Sensor

![Flex Sensor Subsystem Block Diagram](image/laksh-blockdiagram.png)

Link to Draw.io is [here](https://app.diagrams.net/#G1aowyaz1jB5e_mhioJ-Hf5ubIlwDby4pD#%7B"pageId"%3A"smGOTXmF8ZFHZr45nH4Z"%7D).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://lakshanandsugumar.github.io/lakshtest01.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance:

This subsystem is responsible for reading data from a flex sensor and communicating with the motor subsystem to control movement based on the sensor’s readings. At several points along the path of the door, the subsystem is checking that the amount of flex from the doorframe to the door matches up with the rotational angle of the door.

### Rotary Encoder

![Rotary Encoder Subsystem Block Diagram](<image/Individual Rotary sensor Subsystem for team.png>)

Link to Draw.io is [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13LKkwTJjgqqxmauylCVNC0H4SzO0dGRc/view?usp=sharing).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://chvisto.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance

The rotary encoder provides feedback regarding the position and movement of the door with great detail. It will keep track of how far and in which direction the motor shaft has rotated and report that back to the microcontroller. This way the system may move the door with its required angle without a situation where the system over rotates or stops before it reaches the required angle.

- Correlation to Requirements

This subsystem provides support to the project's primary requirement of accurate and reliable motion control. The rotary encoder allows the motor to respond appropriately to positional feedback, preventing irregular operations. It also contributes to calibration and safety functions by confirming that the door returns to its resting position after each cycle. It would not be possible to achieve precision for smooth and dependable performance without it.

- Interface Connections

The rotary encoder connects to the PIC18F57Q43 Curiosity Nano via two digital input channels (Channel A and Channel B). These outputs will be out of phase with each other by 90 degrees, allowing the microcontroller to detect direction and extent of rotation. This subsystem is also connected with the motor and flex sensor subsystems for the purpose of coordinated movement and the prevention of collisions. It also includes test points and labeled connectors for easy debugging and calibration during product testing.

## Summary

Each component was chosen carefully to ensure safety as our top priority. Every system needed to connect to the motor to listen if the motor was in motion or tell the motor that there is something in the doorway so that the motor starts to open the door. This already met product requirements to open and close the door based off of sensors instead of a key fob, knob, or button. This also lets the door stop itself from closing into the user which enhances the safety and our requirement to make this door convienient and safe for all users.

The next part of safety is two fold. The door calibrates itself at the begining of the installation process. This calibration can happen again if the button is pressed and there is a problen during calibration. This ensures that if there is additional strain on the product or an unforseen incident, the product will stop and prevent further injuries to itself and potentially the user.

In conclusion, safety and convienience was always the number one requirement for our product. This should be used to help households and and destress inconvienient situations, not to cause more issues during an already stressful day.

Commit message:

Added to description for distance-sensing subsystem on block diagram page

docs/06-team-block-diagram.md, after:

---
title: Team Block Diagram
---

## Description

The block diagram below shows how our team's individual subsystems connect to each other. Each major block represents one subsystem showing the programmed microcontroller, which pins of it are being used (and how), and what those pins are connected to. The subsystems will connect to each other via a total of four 8-wire ribbon cables. The pin-headers for these cables are shown at the bottom of each subsystem block, and they display which of their pins are connected to the subsystem. Any pins on the headers that do not have arrows will not be used in the design. The large, bold, bidirectional arrows between subsystems represent the 8-wire ribbon cables themselves, showing which subsytems are directly connected to each other. This diagram helps the team and stakeholders understand the general function of each subsystem as well as how they will be communicating to form a complete system.

## Block Diagram of Subsystems

![Team103 Block Diagram](image/Team103_Block_Diagram.drawio.png)

This is the whole system where each subsystem is connected to another with an 8-wire ribbon cable. The motor is used as a bridge from the flex sensor and the rotary encoder during initial calibration. Every subsystem is then connected to the motor to feed and recieve information from its inputs and motion.

### Motor

![Motor Subsystem Block Diagram](<image/Individual Motor Subsystem for Team.drawio.png>)

Link to Draw.io is [here](https://viewer.diagrams.net/?tags=%7B%7D&lightbox=1&highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&layers=1&nav=1&title=Individual%20Motor%20Subsystem.drawio&dark=auto#R%3Cmxfile%3E%3Cdiagram%20name%3D%22Page-1%22%20id%3D%22eZ7gXXGAp_J01Qm2sftV%22%3E7V1dd6q4Gv41rjX7wq6Eby5b3e3sc9p9OnZmz%2Bxzl2qqTNE4iK3uXz%2BJgkKSgggkuNa%2BaSEmQJ68X08SXnrmYL65i9By9kAmOOwZYLLpmcOeYUAIPfqPlWz3JQ5ICqZRMEkqHQuegh84KQRJ6TqY4FWuYkxIGAfLfOGYLBZ4HOfKUBSR93y1FxLm77pEUywUPI1RKJb%2BGUzi2b7Us8Gx%2FFccTGfpnSFIfpmjtHJSsJqhCXnPFJmfe%2BYgIiTeH803Axwy8FJc9u1uP%2Fj18GARXsSnNHjZ%2FP8p%2BjGO%2FYdv%2FzjDu6%2Ff%2FbtJ39hf5Q2F66TDX1YIjXvmNS19IDGJkoePtykiEVkvJphdFPTMm%2FdZEOOnJRqzX9%2BpDNCyWTwP6Rmkhy9BGA5ISC9jDhdkQSvdvOEoDijA12EwXdDimLA2Ym%2BSDrLqeJMpSnp3h8kcx9GWVkl%2BtbwE6UTUoJ%2Bcvx8HzneSsllm0CwrKUSJsEwP1z7iSQ8SSCvA60EB38bxnKDVbNccNgMjNKw8jgYQcYSeDEejNRxFOe08jjYsh9E1JTAaflswmgKKD8E4IuNZsKTFj18G0Lu13d8sWg8M1lFAVkHMevQVLUg9vOVKLxmFOXlDz7tbsGYRXgU%2FsuckRnHmnHobnD3HkyB7GpLx6%2BEJEw%2BR%2BbmJQbbt%2FCAb4iDbQDbIsK1BtoSRwhPq0pJTEsUzMiULFH4%2Blt7kx%2FJY556wcdqB9TeO423in9E6JvnxpQhG279Y%2Bys7Pf2eXG53Mtzkzrbp2SaIM83o2ff0ivT42IidpG0%2BHLYVWUdjXACN7SQRBIqmOC5SlERTGHKFYhDhEMXBWz5YkA1p0vSRBPShD%2BLjGnnxsU1OKvZPmrQ6CsZ1FKFtptqSVVgV3Adw97G4WKHsufL16cH%2BCY5SesDkfMG1tQiuVABBoQCeK%2BznC65xquCmcWnbguvYJYK771JtwRXuYxcLru8X1m9HcJ0LFFxoZCUXXgFYZqnZ2SOOAooWjupLNDxVog01Es178rYkmr%2BPVSLRjmHWq2%2FC9jXA1asBLoAZHWDCbJ2oBznzfeXaZUpAr9KcDqSiXaoDfisqUFVyfWDkJcsrlkQIfFCvgQ3t9mXX0yy7vpGXXeCcJbvGT9ktkl2Ls7puiShCjr1Xb%2BApkN0E3Ny0iBPGjBkHb%2FRwGu8GeV%2B0WqJFWvZr%2FyYK2JAkv9G7Z3%2FOFEsu9OG1M0rk%2FLNmE5s3z2j8Ot2pS3%2B8Z%2FpsZjGaPv9iMEdIuw0OBxAYn%2FbXTBqnd0ET9BKtg1jT04aMtvcnKHr9peDBd0fsd9PdH6f%2Fwad9r8DHlwRJzbTB8WLizejBJzlM9%2F5OCMHwyyP96102WnzneoZpWZ5fsVN15qxC9IzDm0MfuYmqD01nhZlWaMmNTG6mFUpmj5y2Jo%2FSmxVblGRhoFM2YkSeSbyaUf97ESbN9izw512fsoHHh77N4h4AjW8KpbsJ%2BTUBF69ZEvmVzX62J79QQEVhNJdlIUdeXi2OKwvjzg%2FZ%2FBMjNtjOHFLVkA0aLiddoCQEExq4CiZ%2FEopSYjHvIoyZNbn%2FPGxDmSdBhMdxQNjSCkaruCH9hk4%2BajY9Ub9lC6r81Elz6u1IwOaAY6Z5%2BWHv86tAvcN6TYUlH35uXOa0Zai0Z%2FRcAZWkm8xLA9Ek1lq6o242JnOphBWPWTnC%2BhD0BAQnwTSIUXgx2B1WmU%2FzwK0t1UORkyLqS8n0YpDccLB9jKylElhDDM1ranarCmwoxUbcZyM6Bs3YbD4UI7VQGQJUZkehkrAJtVCJ%2B2XEzRXdgMrRDZUlQCUu53cDKkkMqxYqkTCIC8jdgApKtqypxUqM98Wlxo5gpd2wiyxAXNrqCFbaLbsY7wtQtc0jHX6rinYeaYihe5ZH1oyo6kbwhzHrMI80xRi9EzyyAnZd4ZGmGNJ3gUdWQLKjPNIUCYAaHnmeAiv1C6YY8avhkdXFSne4YYoRvxoeWR0q3dGGKUb8anhkdah080hTDPjV8MjqUOnmkaYY76vhkTVcoDasxHhfDY88Ayvthl1kAWp45BlY6bbslhjvC1C1zSM9p2s80hJD9yyPrBkm1I3grdMR1oegGKN3gkdWwK4rPNISQ%2Fou8MgKSHaUR1oiAVDDI89TYLV%2BQYz41fDI6mKlO9ywxIhfDY%2BsDpX2aEOM%2BNXwyOpQ6eaRlhjwq%2BGR1aHSzSMtMd5XwyNruEBdWKWvVyvnkWdgpduw2yILUMMjz8BKt2VP36bLYDVM433whV7yf%2FWQU5mGyeY3DUv4qCVLH9Qam7LFgOJnSpQ0d0EyWKVvBaSyr%2FmtANvjXuQsyWRim4X123knwBap0ei28fijsmY6XBYYS%2BJOZRSyte389knvToxunY6%2BAOXwbxVrB1QkU6PbxiOU6jjxSqsdJ5FJjW70Kyifdkk%2FTiKNGg07gJPTNZx8LRHGIVKw7FwSoCvfMwvjhTqxSYM5JLwTY490qlFz7OF6hal1SuvbfIZWrr7n2kX124lVHJHSjoaNTwBUVnGva7GKI9LZ0VC%2Fa%2FU0hiDX930Ibn9bw8Hfv%2BO%2FPkcAEqwpi19qz2CvelKc88gWZ4vOZF%2FmiRbQr2nv6om%2BuIQmCdMhAK8MBhJTGAKydxHdSrqgOY9Mxad9hA7479fLzuLSes6bnmFCj%2FnhQpQqdj6O0GKV6rOaXjhozpzD4nm1zI%2FuJeQBMbjAxbTNq7Qom3xd4oc848puy2yJszCy2QUKVGt5GZoAl0%2FCYJmih1eahMERZ21Gt40vRNaed9YfMUomYwYdiKy7Nhnj6Mkeemb%2BHbXT8%2BnaSWmA6HSDIvu8cDnFlBdCfsqrcgNLQZ5FRzIPNtBv8vyuzRc6eubBaquyb7tZZb4ChlGo0Jpyqaa5pnRn5gLpvqMTc1JDCO16DUxfgZa7sqmwxvc0VtfyrgU2rp4ke5k5a8PMa7rvlql6s9nr05ffyrPXu4o1NjewTeiEoWOszx8Zqx0TKc7V867X5C7R0JdbPD5LQEkSRP65qtZX87mATm3IKfvyRQ1hPPWzLenigu7onXfTfonw8J4pX78l4bmoD1ydLzzGqVGhpdrHfLDTil%2B9NIuFxzcL67ckPJK5qyHQHuJB0LXlTvdiPmpUQ8NOXX2zu8G7bD4WgMUa5vBvhkIVGiZurcrNuksWYV7IIu6vdjLBVligs9xIl0h2F3k%2B%2FxK770HSX4cBmkZoTo%2F6ffrnd7w7hsDcN36MgjcU4%2F4fK8wqk91Lq9dUVudol2L5uE7wXGE17tyH3n%2BP1wBP84Aagt060hNmR%2BABR%2B%2FBYlckXz3q%2BqrXPXpdzdACLSasU%2Bvpeo6ifZvBLApW1DgY4D9khZezeuth1AjHeTuziiPyirkd8ZJN8ijZHD%2BmmDDaKOyanweTyc70yXxE3hyy0U4MH3SacRsW53Jl6bmVvrfsyvKqCUtu9jcm7Vc2E6w3EsbsE9wGGOHpmlrPzn1Ygr2I8Yq3l7FnwPXsPrQso2%2F3vw4vfFUZcN%2FzPnwyt%2By1fNjEezrSzU2d4q2nUY9G9im5%2FomR0n6rkK6NSuljlmxUYt9ZATvr88ci2lud3SaAR%2FLOtixRV7RchlvNmt269%2F35Ua2TYDJt48Ls5oEoqrCb9DQiDLAjh6Cdmj2QCWY1%2FgU%3D%3C%2Fdiagram%3E%3C%2Fmxfile%3E).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://isrysm52.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance:

This subsystem is the main brain of the Automatic Door Opener. The motor takes information from the flex sensor, the rotary encoder, and the two distance sensors to determine if it should move forward or backward. It also uses the information given to stop and wait for more input if there are problems with movement.

- Correlation to Requirements

This subsystem uses the motor to open the door, stop the door, and is attached to the latch that will diengage the motor in case of emergencies. This is the focus on safety while the automatic door opener and closer is being used. 

- User-Interface Connections

This subsystem has the potentiometer that will give the user the abitilty to manually slow down and speed up the door. This subsystem also has lights that will be labeled in the manual for when it is activated, moving, and stopped by something in the way. 


### IR Sensors

![IR Sensor Subsystem Block Diagram](image/Distance%20Sensors%20Subsystem%20Block%20Diagram.drawio.png)

Link to Draw.io is [here](Documents/Distance_Sensing%20Subsystem%20Block%20Diagram.drawio).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://samerwin1.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance:

This subsystem is responsible for auto-calibration of the system, sensing users approaching the door, and detecting obstacles in the path. When sensing someone approaching, the subsystem tells the motor to begin opening the door. While the door is opening or closing, the subsystem is checking to make sure nothing is in the way at several points along the path.

- Correlation to Requirements

This subsystem specifically contributes to **Software/Functionality**(Aspects 2.1 and 2.2), **Interactivity and User Experience**(Aspects 3.1 and 3.2), and **Safety**(Aspects 6.1 and 6.2) from the Product Requirements page.

- User-Interface Connections

This subsystem provides a virtual interface in the form of a non-physical switch which is automatically activated as a user approaches the door. It also has an LED which will inform the user of whether the system is in a normal operating state or there is an obstacle detected.

### Flex Sensor

![Flex Sensor Subsystem Block Diagram](image/laksh-blockdiagram.png)

Link to Draw.io is [here](https://app.diagrams.net/#G1aowyaz1jB5e_mhioJ-Hf5ubIlwDby4pD#%7B"pageId"%3A"smGOTXmF8ZFHZr45nH4Z"%7D).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://lakshanandsugumar.github.io/lakshtest01.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance:

This subsystem is responsible for reading data from a flex sensor and communicating with the motor subsystem to control movement based on the sensor’s readings. At several points along the path of the door, the subsystem is checking that the amount of flex from the doorframe to the door matches up with the rotational angle of the door.

### Rotary Encoder

![Rotary Encoder Subsystem Block Diagram](<image/Individual Rotary sensor Subsystem for team.png>)

Link to Draw.io is [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13LKkwTJjgqqxmauylCVNC0H4SzO0dGRc/view?usp=sharing).

Link to subsystem website is [here](https://chvisto.github.io/01-Block-Diagram/Block-Diagram/).

- Importance

The rotary encoder provides feedback regarding the position and movement of the door with great detail. It will keep track of how far and in which direction the motor shaft has rotated and report that back to the microcontroller. This way the system may move the door with its required angle without a situation where the system over rotates or stops before it reaches the required angle.

- Correlation to Requirements

This subsystem provides support to the project's primary requirement of accurate and reliable motion control. The rotary encoder allows the motor to respond appropriately to positional feedback, preventing irregular operations. It also contributes to calibration and safety functions by confirming that the door returns to its resting position after each cycle. It would not be possible to achieve precision for smooth and dependable performance without it.

- User-Interface Connections

The rotary encoder connects to the PIC18F57Q43 Curiosity Nano via two digital input channels (Channel A and Channel B). These outputs will be out of phase with each other by 90 degrees, allowing the microcontroller to detect direction and extent of rotation. This subsystem is also connected with the motor and flex sensor subsystems for the purpose of coordinated movement and the prevention of collisions. It also includes test points and labeled connectors for easy debugging and calibration during product testing.

## Summary

Each component was chosen carefully to ensure safety as our top priority. Every system needed to connect to the motor to listen if the motor was in motion or tell the motor that there is something in the doorway so that the motor starts to open the door. This already met product requirements to open and close the door based off of sensors instead of a key fob, knob, or button. This also lets the door stop itself from closing into the user which enhances the safety and our requirement to make this door convienient and safe for all users.

The next part of safety is two fold. The door calibrates itself at the begining of the installation process. This calibration can happen again if the button is pressed and there is a problen during calibration. This ensures that if there is additional strain on the product or an unforseen incident, the product will stop and prevent further injuries to itself and potentially the user.

In conclusion, safety and convienience was always the number one requirement for our product. This should be used to help households and and destress inconvienient situations, not to cause more issues during an already stressful day.
